https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/322b2e10-913d-488c-944e-167467063728

Game overview can be found on the game's [Itch.io](https://ay2020.itch.io/zen-ascent) page. In short, Zen Ascent is a 3D-platformer game about climbing a tower.

I created Zen Ascent between 2021 and 2023, learning C++ and OpenGL gradually as I added more and more features to the project. I focused on graphics first, creating a system that resembles Physcially Based Rendering (PBR) where each object has not only a color, but a normal map that makes textures look far more realisitc. The rendering engine in this project also uses deferred rendering, meaning all of the geometry (for every object in view) is rendered in one pass and all lighting is rendered in a second pass. This is faster than rendering geometry and lighting for each object individually. Other features in the rendering engine include Screen Space Ambient Occlusion (SSAO), a effect that makes areas where light would not reach as well (like corners) look darker, Bloom (glowing objects) and transparency, including transparent glass with realistic distortions.

I most significant gameplay feature I created for the project is AABB (Axis-Aligned Bounding Box) collision detection. This means the player can walk on floors and into rectangular objects without clipping through. This algorithm is recursive, which allows the player to collide with multiple objects at once--each initial collision and the player's resulting velocity vector is run through the algorithm again to check if any more collisions are made. The player can also jump and experiences gravity when falling off the tower. The game also includes music and a few simple sound effects.

Files in /engine_headers contain function and variable declarations for classes that contain "engine" code--as in features that are not necessarily specific to the game and can carry over into other projects, like graphics. Files in /engine_source define these classes. Likewise, /game_headers and /game_source are for game specific features like character controls.
